RN 42221 - EPM integration (#4595)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: release-notes/Cube/Cube_Feature_Release_10.5/Cube_10.5.5.md

> - For release notes related to the general DataMiner release, see [General Feature Release 10.5.5](xref:General_Feature_Release_10.5.5).
> - For release notes related to the DataMiner web applications, see [DataMiner web apps Feature Release 10.5.5](xref:Web_apps_Feature_Release_10.5.5).

## New features

#### EPM integration now fully available in DataMiner Cube [ID 22125] [ID 24896] [ID 26002] [ID 26232] [ID 29748] [ID 42221]

<!-- MR 10.4.0 [CU14] / 10.5.0 [CU2] - FR 10.5.5 -->

> All EPM integration functionality that previously required the *CPEIntegration* soft-launch option is now fully available in DataMiner Cube. This allows you to access EPM data directly through the Cube UI, instead of only via an EPM Manager element. The data is available via a dedicated app, but can also be accessed via the Surveyor or the Alarm Console.

Reviewer: Not sure what is meant by "a dedicated app"?

##### Topology app

The most prominent new EPM integration feature is the Topology app. If your system contains at least one correctly configured EPM Manager element (as detailed below), this app becomes available via a button in the Cube sidebar. Clicking the button will open a pane where you can select the front-end EPM Manager (in case more than one is available), select the topology chain, drill down to any of the topology levels in that chain, and open a card representing the data of the selected item. When you navigate between (docked) EPM cards, the filter selection will be updated to match the displayed card.

![Topology app](~/user-guide/images/EPMIntegration_Topology_app.png)

To make sure the Topology app is available, the following configuration is needed:

1. Make sure the DMS contains at least one front-end EPM Manager element.

>    For DataMiner Cube to detect these elements, they should be active, the *type* attribute of the *Display* tag in their connector should be set to "element manager", and they should contain a parameter named *ElementManagerType* set to 1. Also, their name should preferably start with "FE".

Reviewer: Names starting with "FE" no longer give a technical advantage but can be handy for recognition by the user.

>    Each front-end EPM Manager element will describe a topology chain and its associated filters.

Reviewer: This can cause some confusion, the topology chain is defined in the protocol that is used by all element managers (front-end and back-end) for the same technology.

1. Go to *System Center* > *System settings* > *EPM config*, and add the front-end EPM Manager elements to the list.

   In the Topology app, you will now be able to select the front-end managers and the corresponding topology chains.

##### EPM masking info<!-- 26002 -->

> If an EPM object in the topology is masked, you can get information on who masked it and when via the *Masking info* option in the hamburger menu of the Topology app:

Reviewer: I'm confused what is meant with "Topology app" in this context

Author: It's the name that was originally given to the new Topology pane in the EPM documentation, which has been in use already for some time. However, I'll clarify this in the release note so it's less confusing for users who aren't familiar with this yet.

![Masking info option](~/user-guide/images/EPMIntegration_Masking_info.png)

##### System Type and System Name properties

> For much of the EPM integration functionality, the system type and system name must be configured in EPM Manager protocols. The system type is configured with the name attribute of the *Topologies.Topology.Cell* tag, and the system name is configured with the *columnPid* attribute of the *Topologies.Topology.Cell.Exposer.LinkedIds.LinkedId* tag. For example, in the configuration below, *Amplifier* is the system type, and the system name is indicated by the specified column PID:

Reviewer: The System Name will be the value of a cell in the column with this pid once data is filled in, e.g. system type can be "Location", system name can be "Izegem" or "Brugge"

In addition, the front-end and back-end elements for the **same technology** must use the **same DataMiner protocol and version**, as otherwise this may result in incorrect linking in the DataMiner Cube UI.

If these conditions are met, to start using the front-end EPM Managers, first define them in System Center via *System settings* > *EPM config* or via the cogwheel icon in the Topology app.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Because of this change, some **configuration changes may be required in systems that were previously using the *CPEIntegration* soft-launch option**. Some existing solutions may not have a unique system type per EPM Manager protocol, or they may have front-end and back-end manager elements with different protocols or protocol versions, which will no longer work correctly.

##### Customization of EPM integration data pages

By default, the table and column parameters linked to an EPM object will automatically be positioned on data pages. The name of a page will match the description of the table, and the parameters will be displayed in the order defined in the column definitions of the table, in two columns.

> You can change the name of a page by giving the table a position on a page that has a name prefixed with `CPEIntegration_`, e.g. *CPEIntegration_MyCustomPage*. To hide a complete table, add a table position on the special page *CPEIntegration_Hidden*. Note that pages with the `CPEIntegration_` prefix will not be shown on regular element cards.

Author: @MichielVT-SLC This is based on the old wiki, but I couldn't find a corresponding RN. Could you confirm if this is indeed OK?

Author: Is this what you mean?
```suggestion
You can change the name of a page by giving a table column parameter a position on a page that has a name prefixed with `CPEIntegration_`, e.g. *CPEIntegration_MyCustomPage*. To hide a table column completely, add the table column position on the special page *CPEIntegration_Hidden*. Note that pages with the `CPEIntegration_` prefix will not be shown on regular element cards.
```
